README.md, before:

# OpenConcerto database

Build and set up a Docker[ized] PostgreSQL database OpenConcerto ready.

This installation is intended for multi-user environments but can be convenient for single-user environments as a much more flexible alternative to Java H2 database.

Did you find it useful? Give it a star!

## Prerequisites

For Windows users:

- Windows 10 Professional (or Enterprise)
- Docker Desktop for Windows 2.x

For macOS and Linux users:

`server.ps1` can be easily derived into a native shell script. I have no time (and no need) for it now but if one really needs it, I may consider doing it. Feel free to contribute if you have time and skills for that, you will be welcomed.

## Installation

Download `server.ps1` and run it from any (Windows) PowerShell command interface.

Example:
```
PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ls
...
-a----       12/18/2019  10:02 AM           4678 server.ps1
...

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ./server.ps1
```

As of Dec. 2019, `server.ps1` will install an OpenConcerto 1.6.3 over a PostgreSQL 12.1. Both releases can be modified from the upper section of the script.

## Execution policy restriction

Depending on your Windows' current and active execution policy, you may encounter an error like the following one:
```
PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ./server.ps1
.\server.ps1 : File cannot be loaded because running scripts is disabled on this system. For more
information, see about_Execution_Policies at https:/go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=135170.
At line:1 char:1
+ ./server.ps1
+ ~~~~~~~~~~
    + CategoryInfo          : SecurityError: (:) [], PSSecurityException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : UnauthorizedAccess
```

For security (and safety) reasons, Windows now limits scripts capabilities thus preventing itself from being harmed. While the execution policy should probably stay as-is because it actually protects users, sometimes against themselves, this also prevents automated scripts like this one from running.

To momentarily get around this limitation, change the execution policy, run the script, and finally change it back.

Here is a complete demonstration:
```
PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Get-ExecutionPolicy
Restricted

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser Unrestricted

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Get-ExecutionPolicy
Unrestricted

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ./server.ps1
...

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser Restricted

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Get-ExecutionPolicy
Restricted
```

Please refer to [Microsoft's documentation](https:/go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=135170) for further details.

## Useful commands

```
docker container ls -a
docker container start opendb
docker container stop  opendb
docker container exec -it -u postgres opendb sh
docker container exec -it -u postgres opendb psql OpenConcerto
```

## Visual Studio Code configuration (and others IDE)

To gain access to the freshly created database from your favorite IDE, you mainly need to point to the correct DNS name or IP address of the host OS running Docker, not the container's one. Traffic will be routed to the container via port mapping.

For Visual Studio Code:

- Install Microsoft's `PostgreSQL` extension
- Press `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `P`
- Select `PostgreSQL: New Query`
- Select `Create Connection profile` and then enter the following values:
  - Server name: `127.0.0.1`
  - Database name: `OpenConcerto`
  - User name: `openconcerto`
  - Password: `openconcerto`
  - Port: `5432`
  - Profile name: `OpenConcerto`

From there, you now only need to type any query in any new SQL file, do a right click and select `Execute Query`.

# OpenConcerto desktop

**Please note that OpenConcerto's client (called "multiposte") support is experimental.**

This installation is intended for environments where:

- Java is not welcomed and is prefered isolated (e.g. security concerns)
- Multiple Java versions coexistence are not wanted

## Prerequisites

See OpenConcerto database section.

## Installation

Download `client.ps1` and run it from any (Windows) PowerShell command interface.

Example:
```
PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ls
...
-a----       12/18/2019  11:34 AM           5401 client.ps1
...

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ./client.ps1
```

As of Dec. 2019, `client.ps1` will install an OpenConcerto 1.6.3 over a OpenJDK 14. Both releases can be modified from the upper section of the script.

## Execution policy restriction

See OpenConcerto database section.

## Start Linux' Graphical interface (XDisplay)

XDisplay does not start by itself and requires some sort of service launched either manually or by system at start up.

Simply create a shell script and then give it the execution permission:

0. `cd ~`
1. `vi x11.sh`
2. `i`
3. Copy paste the script's content
4. `ESCAPE` 
5. `:wq`
6. `chmod +x x11.sh`
7. `./x11.sh`

Script's content:
```
#!/bin/bash
nohup /usr/bin/Xvfb ${DISPLAY} -screen 0 ${RESOLUTION} -ac +extension GLX +render -noreset >/dev/null 2>&1 &
nohup startxfce4 >/dev/null 2>&1 &
nohup x11vnc -xkb -noxrecord -noxfixes -noxdamage -display ${DISPLAY} -forever -bg -rfbauth /home/alpine/.vnc/passwd -users alpine -rfbport ${PORT} >/dev/null 2>&1 &
```

For this script (and the graphical interface) to be launched at start up, add it to `init.d`.

*Note for myself: Automate these steps inside `client.ps1`.*

## Access via VNC Viewer

**Prerequisite:**

- [VNC Viewer](https://www.realvnc.com/en/connect/download/viewer/) by Real VNC<sup>TM</sup>
- Or any other application supporting **VNC protocol**

To gain access to the freshly created remote desktop from your favorite computer station, you mainly need to point to the IP address of your container. But in order to be able to do so, will be required an addition of a static route in your Windows' `hosts` configuration. (Nothing complicated though.)

> Why so?
>
> Long story short, on Windows, Docker only routes traffic via port mapping. Either this to be for (lack of) expertise or for political reasons, Docker Team has made no plan so far to change that.
>
> See [Networking features in Docker Desktop for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/networking/) for further details on limitations.
>
> This may change in 2020 thanks to Microsoft and WSL2's release which will implement a native Linux kernel. You can follow Docker Team's developments regarding WSL support from here: [Docker Desktop WSL 2 backend](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/wsl-tech-preview/).

**Until then:** Find the container's IP address and then add a static route.

Here is a complete demonstration:
```
PS C:\> docker inspect --format='{{range .NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{.IPAddress}}{{end}}' opencc      
172.19.0.2

PS C:\> route -p add 172.19.0.2 mask 255.255.255.255 10.0.75.2   
 OK!

PS C:\> route print -4
...
===========================================================================
Persistent Routes:
  Network Address          Netmask  Gateway Address  Metric
       172.19.0.2  255.255.255.255        10.0.75.2       1
...
```

You may remove this static route at anytime with this simple command:
```
route -p delete 172.19.0.2
```

You may adjust IP address and mask to route part or all of the Docker traffic.

For example:
```
route -p add 172.16.0.0 mask 255.240.0.0 10.0.75.2
```

## Useful commands

```
docker container ls -a
docker container start opencc
docker container stop  opencc
docker container exec -it -u alpine opencc sh
```

# Licence

MIT

Commit message:

Addition of BIOS-level hardware virtualization prerequisite

README.md, after:

# OpenConcerto database

Build and set up a Docker[ized] PostgreSQL database OpenConcerto ready.

This installation is intended for multi-user environments but can be convenient for single-user environments as a much more flexible alternative to Java H2 database.

Did you find it useful? Give it a star!

## Prerequisites

For Windows users:

- Windows 10 Professional (or Enterprise) (OS Build 15063 or later)
- Docker Desktop for Windows 2.x

> Facing some issues occurring during Docker start up?
> > "*Error: Hardware assisted virtualization and data execution protection must be enabled in the BIOS.*"
>
> Make sure your computer station or your server has the following services active:
>
>  - Microsoft **Hyper-V**
>  - CPU vendor-specific BIOS-level hardware virtualization aka **VT-x/AMD-v**
>
> See Docker's [virtualization](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/troubleshoot/#virtualization) troubleshoots for further details.

For macOS and Linux users:

`server.ps1` can be easily derived into a native shell script. I have no time (and no need) for it now but if one really needs it, I may consider doing it. Feel free to contribute if you have time and skills for that, you will be welcomed.

## Installation

Download `server.ps1` and run it from any (Windows) PowerShell command interface.

Example:
```
PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ls
...
-a----       12/18/2019  10:02 AM           4678 server.ps1
...

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ./server.ps1
```

As of Dec. 2019, `server.ps1` will install an OpenConcerto 1.6.3 over a PostgreSQL 12.1. Both releases can be modified from the upper section of the script.

## Execution policy restriction

Depending on your Windows' current and active execution policy, you may encounter an error like the following one:
```
PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ./server.ps1
.\server.ps1 : File cannot be loaded because running scripts is disabled on this system. For more
information, see about_Execution_Policies at https:/go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=135170.
At line:1 char:1
+ ./server.ps1
+ ~~~~~~~~~~
    + CategoryInfo          : SecurityError: (:) [], PSSecurityException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : UnauthorizedAccess
```

For security (and safety) reasons, Windows now limits scripts capabilities thus preventing itself from being harmed. While the execution policy should probably stay as-is because it actually protects users, sometimes against themselves, this also prevents automated scripts like this one from running.

To momentarily get around this limitation, change the execution policy, run the script, and finally change it back.

Here is a complete demonstration:
```
PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Get-ExecutionPolicy
Restricted

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser Unrestricted

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Get-ExecutionPolicy
Unrestricted

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ./server.ps1
...

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser Restricted

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> Get-ExecutionPolicy
Restricted
```

Please refer to [Microsoft's documentation](https:/go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=135170) for further details.

## Useful commands

```
docker container ls -a
docker container start opendb
docker container stop  opendb
docker container exec -it -u postgres opendb sh
docker container exec -it -u postgres opendb psql OpenConcerto
```

## Visual Studio Code configuration (and others IDE)

To gain access to the freshly created database from your favorite IDE, you mainly need to point to the correct DNS name or IP address of the host OS running Docker, not the container's one. Traffic will be routed to the container via port mapping.

For Visual Studio Code:

- Install Microsoft's `PostgreSQL` extension
- Press `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `P`
- Select `PostgreSQL: New Query`
- Select `Create Connection profile` and then enter the following values:
  - Server name: `127.0.0.1`
  - Database name: `OpenConcerto`
  - User name: `openconcerto`
  - Password: `openconcerto`
  - Port: `5432`
  - Profile name: `OpenConcerto`

From there, you now only need to type any query in any new SQL file, do a right click and select `Execute Query`.

# OpenConcerto desktop

**Please note that OpenConcerto's client (called "multiposte") support is experimental.**

This installation is intended for environments where:

- Java is not welcomed and is prefered isolated (e.g. security concerns)
- Multiple Java versions coexistence are not wanted

## Prerequisites

See OpenConcerto database section.

## Installation

Download `client.ps1` and run it from any (Windows) PowerShell command interface.

Example:
```
PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ls
...
-a----       12/18/2019  11:34 AM           5401 client.ps1
...

PS C:\Users\me\Desktop> ./client.ps1
```

As of Dec. 2019, `client.ps1` will install an OpenConcerto 1.6.3 over a OpenJDK 14. Both releases can be modified from the upper section of the script.

## Execution policy restriction

See OpenConcerto database section.

## Start Linux' Graphical interface (XDisplay)

XDisplay does not start by itself and requires some sort of service launched either manually or by system at start up.

Simply create a shell script and then give it the execution permission:

0. `cd ~`
1. `vi x11.sh`
2. `i`
3. Copy paste the script's content
4. `ESCAPE` 
5. `:wq`
6. `chmod +x x11.sh`
7. `./x11.sh`

Script's content:
```
#!/bin/bash
nohup /usr/bin/Xvfb ${DISPLAY} -screen 0 ${RESOLUTION} -ac +extension GLX +render -noreset >/dev/null 2>&1 &
nohup startxfce4 >/dev/null 2>&1 &
nohup x11vnc -xkb -noxrecord -noxfixes -noxdamage -display ${DISPLAY} -forever -bg -rfbauth /home/alpine/.vnc/passwd -users alpine -rfbport ${PORT} >/dev/null 2>&1 &
```

For this script (and the graphical interface) to be launched at start up, add it to `init.d`.

*Note for myself: Automate these steps inside `client.ps1`.*

## Access via VNC Viewer

**Prerequisite:**

- [VNC Viewer](https://www.realvnc.com/en/connect/download/viewer/) by Real VNC<sup>TM</sup>
- Or any other application supporting **VNC protocol**

To gain access to the freshly created remote desktop from your favorite computer station, you mainly need to point to the IP address of your container. But in order to be able to do so, will be required an addition of a static route in your Windows' `hosts` configuration. (Nothing complicated though.)

> Why so?
>
> Long story short, on Windows, Docker only routes traffic via port mapping. Either this to be for (lack of) expertise or for political reasons, Docker Team has made no plan so far to change that.
>
> See [Networking features in Docker Desktop for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/networking/) for further details on limitations.
>
> This may change in 2020 thanks to Microsoft and WSL2's release which will implement a native Linux kernel. You can follow Docker Team's developments regarding WSL support from here: [Docker Desktop WSL 2 backend](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/wsl-tech-preview/).

**Until then:** Find the container's IP address and then add a static route.

Here is a complete demonstration:
```
PS C:\> docker inspect --format='{{range .NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{.IPAddress}}{{end}}' opencc      
172.19.0.2

PS C:\> route -p add 172.19.0.2 mask 255.255.255.255 10.0.75.2   
 OK!

PS C:\> route print -4
...
===========================================================================
Persistent Routes:
  Network Address          Netmask  Gateway Address  Metric
       172.19.0.2  255.255.255.255        10.0.75.2       1
...
```

You may remove this static route at anytime with this simple command:
```
route -p delete 172.19.0.2
```

You may adjust IP address and mask to route part or all of the Docker traffic.

For example:
```
route -p add 172.16.0.0 mask 255.240.0.0 10.0.75.2
```

## Useful commands

```
docker container ls -a
docker container start opencc
docker container stop  opencc
docker container exec -it -u alpine opencc sh
```

# Licence

MIT
